.TH ARAPY 1 "March 2026" "arapy 1.4.x" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
arapy \- dynamic CLI for HPE Aruba ClearPass Policy Manager

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B arapy
[\fIGLOBAL-OPTIONS\fR] \fIMODULE SERVICE ACTION\fR [\fIKEY=VALUE\fR ...]

.br
.B arapy
cache clear

.br
.B arapy
cache update

.br
.B arapy
server list

.br
.B arapy
server show

.br
.B arapy
server use \fIPROFILE\fR

.br
.B arapy
[\fB--help\fR|\fB?\fR]

.br
.B arapy
\fB--version\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B arapy
is a command-line client for HPE Aruba ClearPass Policy Manager.

It discovers available API modules, services, actions, and request metadata
dynamically from the ClearPass API documentation endpoints. Because of this,
the exact command surface depends on the connected ClearPass server.

This manual describes the stable, static parts of
.BR arapy :
authentication, global options, cache behavior, output behavior, and common
usage. For endpoint-specific help, use the built-in dynamic help:

.PP
.EX
arapy <module> <service> ?
arapy <module> <service> <action> ?
.EE

.SH COMMAND MODEL
The general command form is:

.PP
.EX
arapy <module> <service> <action> [--key=value ...]
.EE

Supported action names commonly include:

.TP
.B list
List collection resources. Equivalent to \fBget --all\fR for many endpoints.

.TP
.B get
Retrieve one resource or, with \fB--all\fR, a collection.

.TP
.B add
Create a resource.

.TP
.B update
Patch an existing resource.

.TP
.B replace
Replace a resource.

.TP
.B delete
Delete a resource.

The available modules, services, and actions are determined dynamically from
ClearPass and may vary by version and enabled API surface.

.SH CACHE COMMANDS
.TP
.B arapy cache update
Refresh the local API catalog from ClearPass.

.TP
.B arapy cache clear
Remove the local API catalog cache.

.SH SERVER PROFILE COMMANDS
.TP
.B arapy server list
List configured server profiles discovered from the user config files.

.TP
.B arapy server show
Show the active profile, resolved server, and config file locations.

.TP
.BI "arapy server use " PROFILE
Persist the active profile in
.BR ~/.config/arapy/profiles.env .

.SH AUTHENTICATION
.B arapy
supports the following authentication methods:

.TP
.B OAuth client credentials
Configured with environment variables such as:
.RS
.PP
.EX
ARAPY_SERVER
ARAPY_CLIENT_ID
ARAPY_CLIENT_SECRET
.EE
.RE

.TP
.B Direct bearer token
Configured with:
.RS
.PP
.EX
ARAPY_API_TOKEN
.EE
.RE

.TP
.B Token file
Configured with:
.RS
.PP
.EX
ARAPY_API_TOKEN_FILE
.EE
.RE

The token file may contain either a raw token string or JSON such as:

.PP
.EX
{"access_token":"..."}
.EE

Command-line token overrides may also be used:

.PP
.EX
arapy identities endpoint list --api-token=TOKEN
arapy identities endpoint list --token-file=./token.json
.EE

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --log-level= LEVEL
Set log level. Typical values: debug, info, warning, error, critical.

.TP
.B --console
Also print response output to the terminal.

.TP
.BI --out= FILE
Write output to a specific file.

.TP
.BI --data-format= FORMAT
Set output format. Supported values: json, csv, raw.

.TP
.BI --csv-fieldnames= FIELDS
Comma-separated field list for CSV output ordering.

.TP
.BI --file= FILE
Load request payload from JSON or CSV for bulk/write actions.

.TP
.BI --api-token= TOKEN
Use an existing bearer token instead of logging in.

.TP
.BI --token-file= FILE
Load bearer token from file.

.TP
.BI --limit= N
Set list page size when supported by the endpoint.

.TP
.BI --offset= N
Set list offset when supported by the endpoint.

.TP
.BI --sort= FIELD
Set server-side sort when supported by the endpoint.

.TP
.BI --filter= JSON
Set server-side filter expression when supported by the endpoint.

.TP
.BI --calculate-count= true|false
Request total count when supported by the endpoint.

.TP
.BI --encrypt= enable|disable
Control masking of secret values in saved/logged output.

.TP
.B --decrypt
Disable secret masking in output.

.TP
.BR --help ", " ?
Show help.

.TP
.B --version
Show version.

.SH OUTPUT
By default,
.B arapy
writes responses to files under its state and output directories.

Supported output formats are:

.TP
.B json
Pretty-printed JSON output.

.TP
.B csv
CSV output for list-style data.

.TP
.B raw
Raw text or binary output, used especially for export and download style
endpoints.

For binary responses,
.B arapy
may automatically choose raw output and use the filename provided by the
server.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ARAPY_SERVER
ClearPass server hostname or host:port.

.TP
.B ARAPY_CLIENT_ID
OAuth client ID.

.TP
.B ARAPY_CLIENT_SECRET
OAuth client secret.

.TP
.B ARAPY_ACTIVE_PROFILE
Select the active profile name used to resolve profile-scoped values from
the config files.

.TP
.B ARAPY_API_TOKEN
Direct bearer token.

.TP
.B ARAPY_API_TOKEN_FILE
Path to token file.

.TP
.B ARAPY_VERIFY_SSL
Enable or disable TLS certificate verification.

.TP
.B ARAPY_TIMEOUT
HTTP timeout in seconds.

.TP
.B ARAPY_LOG_LEVEL
Default log level.

.TP
.B ARAPY_DATA_FORMAT
Default output format.

.TP
.B ARAPY_CONSOLE
Enable console output by default.

.TP
.B ARAPY_ENCRYPT_SECRETS
Mask secret values by default.

.TP
.B ARAPY_CACHE_DIR
Override cache directory.

.TP
.B ARAPY_STATE_DIR
Override state directory.

.TP
.B ARAPY_OUT_DIR
Override response output directory.

.TP
.B ARAPY_APP_LOG_DIR
Override application log directory.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.cache/arapy/
Default cache directory on Linux when XDG defaults are used.

.TP
.B ~/.config/arapy/profiles.env
Per-user profile definitions such as
.BR ARAPY_SERVER_PROD .

.TP
.B ~/.config/arapy/credentials.env
Per-user profile credentials such as
.BR ARAPY_CLIENT_ID_PROD " and " ARAPY_CLIENT_SECRET_PROD .

.TP
.B ~/.local/state/arapy/
Default state directory on Linux when XDG defaults are used.

.TP
.B ~/.local/state/arapy/responses/
Default response output directory.

.TP
.B ~/.local/state/arapy/logs/
Default log directory.

.SH EXAMPLES
Refresh API discovery cache:

.PP
.EX
arapy cache update
.EE

Switch the active server profile:

.PP
.EX
arapy server use prod
arapy server show
.EE

List endpoints:

.PP
.EX
arapy identities endpoint list --limit=10
.EE

Get one network device by id:

.PP
.EX
arapy policyelements network-device get --id=1001
.EE

Update one network device:

.PP
.EX
arapy policyelements network-device update --id=1001 --description="Core switch"
.EE

Use dynamic help for a discovered action:

.PP
.EX
arapy policyelements network-device add ?
.EE

.SH NOTES
This manual is intentionally static and does not attempt to list the full
dynamic API surface discovered from ClearPass.

Use built-in help for live endpoint metadata:

.PP
.EX
arapy <module> <service> ?
arapy <module> <service> <action> ?
.EE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.

.TP
.B non-zero
Failure, invalid arguments, authentication failure, network failure, or API
error.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR python (1),
.BR curl (1)

ClearPass API documentation as exposed by the target server via
.BR /api-docs .
