.TH NETLOOM 1 "March 2026" "netloom 1.8.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
netloom \- spec-driven network API CLI with plugin-backed providers.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B netloom
[\fIGLOBAL-OPTIONS\fR] \fIMODULE SERVICE ACTION\fR [\fIKEY=VALUE\fR ...]

.br
.B netloom
\fBload\fR [\fBlist\fR|\fBshow\fR|\fIPLUGIN\fR]

.br
.B netloom
\fBserver\fR [\fBlist\fR|\fBshow\fR|\fBuse\fR \fIPROFILE\fR]

.br
.B netloom
\fBcache\fR [\fBclear\fR|\fBupdate\fR]

.br
.B netloom
\fBcopy\fR \fIMODULE SERVICE\fR \fB--from=\fR\fISOURCE\fR \fB--to=\fR\fITARGET\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.br
.B netloom
[\fB--help\fR|\fB?\fR]

.br
.B netloom
\fB--version\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B netloom
provides a shared command-line interface for plugin-backed network API clients.

The stable command surface covers plugin selection, profile switching, API cache
management, output handling, and shared request options. The exact modules,
services, actions, and request metadata available under
.BR "netloom <module> <service> <action>" ,
however, depend on the active plugin and the API documentation it discovers.

This manual documents the shared CLI behavior. Plugin-specific behavior should
live in separate manuals. The bundled ClearPass plugin is documented in
.BR netloom-clearpass (7).

.SH BUILT-IN COMMANDS
.TP
.B netloom load <plugin>
Persist the active plugin selection used by later plugin-backed commands.

.TP
.B netloom load list
Show installed or configured plugins.

.TP
.B netloom load show
Show the currently selected plugin.

.TP
.B netloom server list
Show configured profiles for the active plugin.

.TP
.B netloom server show
Show the current profile and related config file locations.

.TP
.B netloom server use <profile>
Select the active profile inside the active plugin.

.TP
.B netloom cache update
Refresh the local API catalog for the active plugin.

.TP
.B netloom cache clear
Remove the local API catalog cache for the active plugin.

.TP
.B netloom copy <module> <service> --from=SOURCE --to=TARGET
Compatibility alias for the service-level
.B copy
action.

.SH COMMAND MODEL
The general plugin-backed command form is:

.PP
.EX
netloom <module> <service> <action> [--key=value ...]
.EE

Common action names include:

.TP
.B list
List collection resources. Often equivalent to \fBget --all\fR.

.TP
.B get
Retrieve one resource or, with \fB--all\fR, a collection.

.TP
.B add
Create a resource.

.TP
.B update
Patch an existing resource.

.TP
.B replace
Replace an existing resource.

.TP
.B delete
Delete a resource.

.TP
.B copy
Copy matching resources from one profile to another when supported by the
active plugin.

The available modules, services, actions, and request details are discovered
dynamically and may vary by plugin, server version, and enabled API surface.

.SH PLUGINS
Plugins provide vendor-specific authentication, discovery, payload handling,
and documentation while reusing the shared
.B netloom
runtime.

At least one plugin must be selected before running plugin-backed commands:

.PP
.EX
netloom load clearpass
.EE

The bundled plugin manuals are the right place for provider-specific workflows,
quirks, and examples. See
.BR netloom-clearpass (7)
for the current built-in provider guide.

.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --log-level= LEVEL
Set log level. Typical values: debug, info, warning, error, critical.

.TP
.B --console
Also print response output to the terminal.

.TP
.BI --out= FILE
Write output to a specific file.

.TP
.BI --data-format= FORMAT
Set output format. Supported values: json, csv, raw.

.TP
.BI --csv-fieldnames= FIELDS
Comma-separated field list for CSV output ordering.

.TP
.BI --file= FILE
Load request payload from JSON or CSV for bulk or write actions.

.TP
.BI --api-token= TOKEN
Use an existing bearer token instead of logging in.

.TP
.BI --token-file= FILE
Load a bearer token from file.

.TP
.BI --limit= N
Set list page size when supported by the endpoint.

.TP
.BI --offset= N
Set list offset when supported by the endpoint.

.TP
.BI --sort= FIELD
Set server-side sort when supported by the endpoint.

.TP
.BI --filter= JSON|FIELD:OP:VALUE
Set server-side filter expression when supported by the endpoint.

.TP
.BI --calculate-count= true|false
Request total count when supported by the endpoint.

.TP
.BI --encrypt= enable|disable
Control masking of secret values in saved or logged output.

.TP
.B --decrypt
Disable secret masking in output.

.TP
.BR --help ", " ?
Show help.

.TP
.B --version
Show version.

.SH OUTPUT
By default,
.B netloom
writes responses to files under its state and output directories.

Supported output formats are:

.TP
.B json
Pretty-printed JSON output.

.TP
.B csv
CSV output for list-style data.

.TP
.B raw
Raw text or binary output, used especially for export and download style
endpoints.

For binary responses,
.B netloom
may automatically choose raw output and use the filename provided by the
server.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NETLOOM_ACTIVE_PROFILE
Default active profile for the selected plugin.

.TP
.B NETLOOM_VERIFY_SSL
Enable or disable TLS certificate verification.

.TP
.B NETLOOM_TIMEOUT
HTTP timeout in seconds.

.TP
.B NETLOOM_LOG_LEVEL
Default log level.

.TP
.B NETLOOM_DATA_FORMAT
Default output format.

.TP
.B NETLOOM_CONSOLE
Enable console output by default.

.TP
.B NETLOOM_ENCRYPT_SECRETS
Mask secret values by default.

.TP
.B NETLOOM_CACHE_DIR
Override cache directory.

.TP
.B NETLOOM_STATE_DIR
Override state directory.

.TP
.B NETLOOM_OUT_DIR
Override response output directory.

.TP
.B NETLOOM_APP_LOG_DIR
Override application log directory.

.TP
.B NETLOOM_CONFIG_DIR
Override the base configuration directory.

Plugin manuals may define additional provider-specific variables.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/netloom/config.env
Stores the active plugin selection.

.TP
.B ~/.config/netloom/plugins/<plugin>/
Plugin-specific configuration root.

.TP
.B ~/.cache/netloom/
Default cache directory on Linux when XDG defaults are used.

.TP
.B ~/.local/state/netloom/
Default state directory on Linux when XDG defaults are used.

.TP
.B ~/.local/state/netloom/responses/
Default response output directory.

.TP
.B ~/.local/state/netloom/logs/
Default log directory.

.SH EXAMPLES
Select a plugin and refresh discovery metadata:

.PP
.EX
netloom load clearpass
netloom cache update
.EE

Switch the active profile:

.PP
.EX
netloom server use dev
.EE

List resources through the active plugin:

.PP
.EX
netloom identities endpoint list --limit=10
.EE

Use dynamic help for a discovered action:

.PP
.EX
netloom policyelements network-device add ?
.EE

.SH NOTES
This manual intentionally stays focused on the shared CLI behavior.

For provider-specific guidance, examples, authentication details, cache notes,
and copy workflows, read the relevant plugin manual in addition to the built-in
dynamic help:

.PP
.EX
netloom <module> <service> ?
netloom <module> <service> <action> ?
.EE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.

.TP
.B non-zero
Failure, invalid arguments, authentication failure, network failure, or API
error.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR netloom-clearpass (7),
.BR python (1),
.BR curl (1)
