.TH NETLOOM-CLEARPASS 7 "March 2026" "netloom 1.8.2" "Miscellaneous Information Manual"
.SH NAME
netloom-clearpass \- ClearPass plugin guide for netloom.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.EX
netloom load clearpass
netloom server use <profile>
netloom cache update
netloom <module> <service> <action> [options]
.EE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B netloom-clearpass
documents the bundled ClearPass plugin for
.BR netloom (1).

The plugin targets HPE Aruba ClearPass Policy Manager and discovers the API
surface dynamically from the ClearPass documentation endpoints exposed by the
selected server. Because of that, the exact modules, services, actions, and
field metadata can vary between ClearPass deployments.

Use this manual for the ClearPass-specific behavior that does not belong in the
shared
.BR netloom (1)
manual: configuration layout, authentication methods, discovery workflow,
filtering conventions, copy behavior, and operational examples.

.SH GETTING STARTED
Select the plugin, pick a profile, and refresh discovery metadata:

.PP
.EX
netloom load clearpass
netloom server use dev
netloom cache update
.EE

After the cache exists, the CLI can offer richer help, completion, and
action-specific metadata for the connected ClearPass server.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The ClearPass plugin stores configuration under:

.PP
.EX
~/.config/netloom/plugins/clearpass/
.EE

Important files and directories:

.TP
.B defaults.env
Plugin-wide defaults such as the active profile, TLS verification, and timeout.

.TP
.B profiles/<profile>.env
Per-profile connection settings such as
.BR NETLOOM_SERVER .

.TP
.B credentials/<profile>.env
Per-profile secrets such as
.B NETLOOM_CLIENT_ID
and
.BR NETLOOM_CLIENT_SECRET .

A typical setup looks like:

.PP
.EX
~/.config/netloom/plugins/clearpass/defaults.env
~/.config/netloom/plugins/clearpass/profiles/dev.env
~/.config/netloom/plugins/clearpass/credentials/dev.env
.EE

.SH AUTHENTICATION
The ClearPass plugin supports the following authentication methods:

.TP
.B OAuth client credentials
Configured with environment variables such as:
.RS
.PP
.EX
NETLOOM_SERVER
NETLOOM_CLIENT_ID
NETLOOM_CLIENT_SECRET
.EE
.RE

.TP
.B Direct bearer token
Configured with:
.RS
.PP
.EX
NETLOOM_API_TOKEN
.EE
.RE

.TP
.B Token file
Configured with:
.RS
.PP
.EX
NETLOOM_API_TOKEN_FILE
.EE
.RE

The token file may contain either a raw token string or JSON such as:

.PP
.EX
{"access_token":"..."}
.EE

Command-line overrides are also available:

.PP
.EX
netloom identities endpoint list --api-token=TOKEN
netloom identities endpoint list --token-file=./token.json
.EE

.SH DISCOVERY AND CACHE
The plugin discovers the command surface from ClearPass documentation endpoints
such as:

.TP
.B /api-docs
Top-level module and service discovery.

.TP
.B /api/apigility/documentation/<Module-v1>
Action metadata, request fields, and endpoint details for a module.

Refresh discovery metadata when the ClearPass server is upgraded or when new
API features are enabled:

.PP
.EX
netloom cache clear
netloom cache update
.EE

The resulting cache drives shell completion, dynamic help output, and the
translation from friendly CLI actions to live API requests.

.SH COMMAND MODEL
With the ClearPass plugin loaded, the general form is:

.PP
.EX
netloom <module> <service> <action> [--key=value ...]
.EE

The plugin commonly exposes actions such as:

.TP
.B list
List collection resources.

.TP
.B get
Retrieve one resource or a collection with
.BR --all .

.TP
.B add
Create a resource.

.TP
.B update
Patch a resource.

.TP
.B replace
Replace a resource.

.TP
.B delete
Delete a resource.

.TP
.B copy
Copy matching resources between two ClearPass profiles.

For live endpoint metadata, use:

.PP
.EX
netloom <module> <service> ?
netloom <module> <service> <action> ?
.EE

.SH FILTERING
When a ClearPass endpoint supports server-side filters, the CLI accepts either
shorthand syntax or full JSON filter expressions.

Shorthand examples:

.PP
.EX
--filter=name:equals:TEST
--filter=name:contains:guest
--filter=id:in:1,2,3
--filter=enabled:exists:true
.EE

Supported shorthand operators include:

.PP
.EX
equals
not-equals
contains
in
not-in
gt
gte
lt
lte
exists
.EE

Use full JSON for advanced expressions such as
.BR $and ,
.BR $or ,
.BR $not ,
or regex-based filters:

.PP
.EX
--filter='{"name":{"$contains":"TEST"}}'
--filter='{"$and":[{"name":{"$contains":"TEST"}},{"status":{"$eq":"Known"}}]}'
.EE

.SH COPY WORKFLOW
The ClearPass plugin supports copying resources between named profiles without
exporting and replaying files manually.

Preferred syntax:

.PP
.EX
netloom <module> <service> copy --from=SOURCE --to=TARGET [options]
.EE

Compatibility alias:

.PP
.EX
netloom copy <module> <service> --from=SOURCE --to=TARGET [options]
.EE

Useful options include:

.TP
.BI --dry-run
Show the planned changes without writing to the target profile.

.TP
.BI --match-by= auto|name|id
Choose how existing target objects are matched.

.TP
.BI --on-conflict= fail|skip|update|replace
Choose what to do when a matching object already exists.

.TP
.BI --save-source= FILE
Write the fetched source objects to a file. When omitted, the copy workflow
still saves them under
.BR NETLOOM_OUT_DIR
using a generated filename.

.TP
.BI --save-payload= FILE
Write the normalized write payloads to a file. When omitted, the copy workflow
still saves them under
.BR NETLOOM_OUT_DIR
using a generated filename.

.TP
.BI --save-plan= FILE
Write the planned operations to a file. When omitted, the copy workflow still
saves them under
.BR NETLOOM_OUT_DIR
using a generated filename.

The plugin also normalizes payloads before replaying them so ClearPass response
metadata and response-only fields are not sent back as write input.

.SH EXAMPLES
List endpoints:

.PP
.EX
netloom identities endpoint list --limit=10
.EE

Get one network device by id:

.PP
.EX
netloom policyelements network-device get --id=1001
.EE

Update one network device:

.PP
.EX
netloom policyelements network-device update --id=1001 --description="Core switch"
.EE

Copy matching network devices from one profile to another:

.PP
.EX
netloom policyelements network-device copy --from=dev --to=prod --all --dry-run
.EE

Use action-specific help:

.PP
.EX
netloom policyelements network-device add ?
.EE

.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.config/netloom/plugins/clearpass/defaults.env
ClearPass-wide defaults.

.TP
.B ~/.config/netloom/plugins/clearpass/profiles/
Profile-specific connection settings.

.TP
.B ~/.config/netloom/plugins/clearpass/credentials/
Profile-specific credentials.

.TP
.B ~/.cache/netloom/
Default cache location used for discovered ClearPass API metadata.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR netloom (1)
